1. What is Semantic HTML? 
A semantic element clearly describes its meaning to both the browser and the developer.
Examples of semantic elements: <form>, <table>, and <article> - Clearly defines its content.

2. What is HTML used for? 
HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is the code that is used to structure a web page and its content.

3. What is an attribute and where do we put it? 
Attributes define additional characteristics or properties of the element such as width and height of an image. 
Attributes are always specified in the start tag (or opening tag) and usually consists of name/value pairs like name="value" .

4. What is the h1 tag used for? How many times should I use it on a page?
The h1 is an HTML tag that indicates a heading on a website.
Best SEO practices indicate that there should be only ONE h1 tag per page. 

5. Name two tags that have required attributes
Image tag and Anchor tag

6. What do we put in the head of our HTML document? 
It contains information such as the page <title> , links to CSS (if you choose to style your HTML content with CSS), 
links to custom favicons, and other metadata (data about the HTML, such as the author, and important keywords 
that describe the document.)

7. What is an id? 
The id attribute specifies a unique id for an HTML element. The value of the id attribute must be unique within the HTML document. The id attribute is used to point to a specific style declaration in a style sheet. It is also used by JavaScript to access and manipulate the element with the specific id.
8. What elements can I add an id to? 

9. How many times can I use the same id on a page? 
The id can only be used once on a page

10. What is a class? 
The class attribute specifies one or more classnames for an element. The class attribute is mostly used to point to a class in a style sheet. However, it can also be used by a JavaScript (via the HTML DOM) to make changes to HTML elements with a specified class.

11. What elements can I add a class to? 

12. How many times can I use the same class on a page? 
There is no technical limit (barring the amount of memory the browser may be consuming), but one should heavily consider having loads of classes on any element as the browser will have to parse all the classes, apply those styles and render the page

13. How do I get my link to open in a new tab?
You can make a HTML link open in a new tab by adding the target=”_blank” attribute. You should insert this after the link address.

14. What is the alt attribute in the image tag used for? 
The required alt attribute specifies an alternate text for an image, if the image cannot be displayed. The alt attribute provides alternative information for an image if a user for some reason cannot view it (because of slow connection, an error in the src attribute, or if the user uses a screen reader).

15. How do I reference an id?
The syntax for id is: write a hash character (#), followed by an id name.

16. What is the difference between a section and a div
The section tag defines sections in a document like chapters, headers, footers whereas div tag defines a division in an HTML document. For <div>, this should be used only when no other semantic element like <article> or <nav> is appropriate

17. What is CSS used for? 
CSS is the language for describing the presentation of Web pages, including colors, layout, and fonts. It allows one to adapt the presentation to different types of devices, such as large screens, small screens, or printers

18. How to we select an element? Example - every h2 on the page
By using the class, tag or id selector

19. What is the difference between a class and an id? - Give me an example of when I might use each one
The difference between an ID and a class is that an ID can be used to identify one element, whereas a class can be used to identify more than one. 

20. How do we select classes in CSS?
The name of the class preceeded by a fullstop

21. How do we select a p element with a single class of “human””?
.human

22. What is a parent child selector? When would this be useful? 
The ("parent > child") selector selects all elements that are a direct child of the specified element.

23. How do you select all links within a div with the class of sidebar?

24. What is a pseudo selector?
A CSS pseudo-class is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state of the selected element(s). For example, :hover can be used to change a button's color when the user's pointer hovers over it.

25. What do we use the change the spacing between lines?
Use the line-height property in CSS to do so. Browsers by default will create a certain amount of space between lines to ensure that the text is easily readable

26. What do we use to change the spacing between letters?
To adjust the letter spacing of your text, you need to use the CSS letter-spacing property.

27. What do we use to to change everything to CAPITALS? lowercase? Capitalize?
The CSS text-transform property is the key to managing text uppercase and lowercase rendering

28. How do I add a 1px border around my div that is dotted and black?

29. How do I select everything on the page? 
The * selector selects all elements.

30. How do I write a comment in CSS?
A CSS comment is placed inside the <style> element, and starts with /* and ends with */

31. How do I find out what file I am in, when I am using the command line? 
pwd- Print working directory

32. Using the command line - how do I see a list of files/folders in my current folder?
ls to list

33. How do I remove a file via the command line? Why do I have to be careful with this?
 rmdir
One needs to be careful as the files are not recoverable

34. Why should I use version control? 
Version control helps teams solve these kinds of problems, tracking every individual change by each contributor and helping prevent concurrent work from conflicting.
To track changes in project and also collaborate

35. How often should I commit to github?
As often as possible to save and track changes

36. What is the command we would use to push our repo up to github? 
git push origin main

37. Walk me through Lambda's git flow. 
Create YOUR OWN version of Repo ---> (Fork)

Add your TL as collaborator

on GitHub:
Settings -> Collaborators -> Add Collaborator (use your TL's handle)
(I'd suggest grabbing the invite tag and DM it to your TL on Slack at this point)

Clone YOUR Repo

back on your machine:
git clone <your-repo-address>

Create a branch (the one you are going to be working on)

cd <repo directory>
git checkout -b 'firstname-lastname'

Push your new branch up to GitHub and make all future pushes to that branch

git push -u origin firstname-lastname

on GitHub:
Compare & Pull Request -> Base: YOUR MASTER (Not the Lambda Master)
compare fork: YOUR FORK

Add your TL as a reviewer on the Pull Request

On the 'Open a Pull Request' page click on Reviewers. If your TL has accepted your invite, then you should be able to select them here. If not, then they haven't accepted the invite, and come back later...

Your TL will merge the work into YOUR Master fork when they have reviewed and approved it.


1. What is the difference between an inline element and a block element?
A block-level element always starts on a new line. A block-level element always takes up the full width available (stretches out to the left and right as far as it can). A block level element has a top and a bottom margin, whereas an inline element does not. WHILE An inline element does not start on a new line. An inline element only takes up as much width as necessary.

2. What happens when an element is positioned absolutely? 
An element with position: absolute; is positioned relative to the nearest positioned ancestor (instead of positioned relative to the viewport, like fixed)

3. How do I make an element take up only the amount of space it needs but also have the ability to give it a width? 
By using the borders, margin and padding

4. Name 3 elements that are diplay block by default, 2 elements that are display inline by default and 1 element that is display inline-block by default
Examples of a block-level elements
<address> - Shows contact information.
<applet> - Embed a Java applet.
<article> - Contains the article's content.

Examples of a inline elements
Button and Input

5. In your own words, explain the box model. What is the "fix" for the box model, in other words, how do we make all elements respect the width we've given them? 
All HTML elements can be considered as boxes. In CSS, the term "box model" is used when talking about design and layout. The CSS box model is essentially a box that wraps around every HTML element. It consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the actual content.
The fix----box-sizing: border-box
